author: The Pursuit of New Terrain
title: 
post: Oh, what an adventure it's been. I am now sitting in my sweet friend Cassie's apartment at Colorado College, and what a trip it is to be state side. I traveled 35 hours yesterday (with one of the worst hangovers I've ever experienced) from Nelson, NZ, to Auckland, to LAX (where I had the distinct privilege of joining my love Holly Blair for lunch), and finally to CC. It has been quite a rush getting back here. But let's rewind. The last day I blogged was the day before I left for my last adventure - a NOLS keelboat sailing course. Over the course of two weeks, I lived on and sailed a 39' and a 35' keelboat. We spent our early mornings with black coffee and cacophonous bird songs, our midday sailing around Queen Charlotte Sound, learning sailing techniques and Dolphin spotting, our evenings learning NOLS curriculum and eating (lots of eating), and our late nights watching the cotton candy sky quickly fade, with newly familiar constellations illuminating the darkness above us, and bioluminescence below us. My hands are rubbed red and softened from the abrasions of the lines we worked with 6-9 hours a day, with a face thoroughly freckled, and the remnants of the smell of salt water plastered into my hair. For each moment spent in the backcountry, my spirit exhaled. Our crew was a bizarre assortment of weirdos, from every walk of life, aging from 23-64 (myself being the exception and the decisive youngster). The diversity of the crew provided for a plethora of experiences and brains to pick, all holding vastly different perceptions of the world. It was just a handful of rad people all stoked on learning how to sail, and sail as well as we could, for that matter. New Zealand is probably the dopest place to sail around in, just from the sheer volume of cool landmasses to look at, but additionally had some pretty incredible wildlife. We had several kinds of dolphins swimming around our boats all day, seals, Little Blue Penguins swimming near us, or in little nesting boxes merely inches away from us when we explored some islands, and innumerable indigenous birds. We had some pretty wild wind, sailing in 37 kts at one point, and having to nestle down one night in a marina after getting a forecast of 55 kts. Other than that, we really had exceptional weather, which is mostly out of the norm for New Zealand, because it rains all the time usually. So that was actually fantastic. All and all, a very very different experience from my first NOLS course, but took in such a vast quantity of information, and enjoyed the company of some of the kindest and most DTA (down to adventure) folk I've met. I continued to be baffled by the beauty of my natural environment, and couldn't believe how much progress each of us made as sailors, as NOLS students, and as people.