author: Mensahes from the Dominican Republic
title: On sending me love letters
post: In honor of thanksgiving, I’d like to remind everyone to be thankful for all the little things, and all the little moments, in both the past and the present. You have no idea how a small action can influence someones world. I’m not going to write a long post about how many things I am thankful for… because it could go on forever (3 years ago I wrote a status about being thankful for dog shows, and 4 years ago I was thankful for invisalighn, remote controls, and sweatpants) Forever random. Instead I am writing a post about someone who has been thankful to Peace Corps Volunteers for 50 years and finally got the chance to reach out to his volunteer. Enjoy! “Eternally Grateful” is how Aklilu Kidanu signed a letter to his daughters, in which he described his experience of having two Peace Corps teachers 50 years ago. Everyday I feel the same way about my Peace Corps experience. The impact it has had on me will last a lifetime. And sometimes I like to think the impact that Peace Corps has had on Ethiopians will also last a lifetime. No matter what happens during a volunteers service, you can return to their community, and without fail someone will be there remembering that volunteer fondly. Ethiopians have a way of keeping memories forever positive. On occasion I have run into older men who have said to me “I had a Peace Corps teacher 50 years ago! And his name was so-and-so”. These men always have the best English, and I have been wondering if it is just a coincidence, or if the Peace Corps teachers back then were just that good! In my first community, Bonga, there was a Peace Corps teacher 50 years ago named Ms. Brenda. Everyone remembers Ms. Brenda, and why shouldn’t they? There is (of course) a statue at the high school in her honor. No joke she has a legit statue. How else would you want to be remembered? If not in a memory or photo, then let it be in a literal concrete form of yourself. Life goals. It’s always nice to hear a positive story or see the “concrete” work of the volunteers before you, but this story I am about to tell is one that reminds me of what a lasting impression we can actually make on the people in our communities…. And sometimes without even knowing it. A small moment can have an impact that may last 50 years. You don’t have to build a school, you don’t have to vaccinate every child, apparently all you have to do is have a catch phrase like “Where is everybody today?!”. A couple of weeks ago one of my work colleagues invited me to have dinner with her at her landlords house. I happily accepted, as any normal volunteer would when they hear the words “home cooked meal” and “free”. Aklilu and his wife, Membi, are exceptionally successful diaspora who live in a gorgeous mansion in Addis, which they welcomed me in to with open arms. They both went to college in America, and now both of their daughters are also studying in America. When I first got to the house I told them I was a Peace Corps Volunteer and Aklilu told me that he knew what Peace Corps was. He didn’t elaborate until later in the night. Aklilu later told me he had been taught English by Peace Corps Volunteers almost 50 years ago. He remembered his teachers so vividly and so lovingly; I knew these two men had had a huge impact on his life.Aklilu continued to tell me everything he remembered about Ash and Floyd B. Davis. He talked about their characters, their dress style, moments he had with them, and what his community thought about them. He had lived in a town called Gore, where we still currently have volunteers. Aklilu told me that one of the volunteers taught on Friday afternoons, which was a day that was notorious for half the class not showing up due to various reasons. Mostly, students would return to their villages and have to walk miles to get home on time, so they would leave early on Fridays and return for the school week on Sunday nights. In a letter that Aklilu wrote to his daughters he remembered Fridays from his childhood by saying: “So, Floyd would come in, stand in front of the class calm and composed but with some confusion and ask, ‘Where is everybody today?’ Of course, not any one of us would understand the question. Even if we did, I guess we would not have said a word. As for me, instead of answering his question, I would wonder why he would say ‘everybody’. Doesn’t that suggest all of us were not in the classroom? At least some of us would be in the class!! So, to this day (including yesterday) when I come home after work and see nobody in the house, I would say ‘Where is everybody today?’, and your mom would answer ‘I am here!’ from some corner in the house!! Hence, almost every day, I remember Floyd fondly for at least a few seconds” Aklilu made a comment during our dinner that I have often dwelled upon and that is close to my heart. He talked about what a different world we would live in if everyone took the chance to experience someone else’s world. I believe that the one thing that Peace Corps does best is work on relationships. Sometimes we don’t realize how important this aspect of our work is. If we can make one person see us, and understand us, we would have a more peaceful world. If we can understand someone else’s world (and how it is different to ours) then we will grow up to make better informed decisions on how to influence people, and the world around them. “I’ve learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.” After I heard his story, Aklilu asked if there would be any way to connect with these volunteers through the peace corps network. Apparently he had one time been in Hawaii for a conference (where Ash was born) and asked a group of reporters to try and connect them. With no such luck from the reporters, Aklilu has forever since wished to run in to them one day. I agreed to try my best to find the men, and so over the weekend, using my incredibly good stalking skills, I was able to track them down via the Internet. Good thing I’ve had so much experience stalking all my future boyfriends ;). Just kidding.I wasn’t able to get Floyds email but as soon as I found Ash’s I reached out to him and connected the two. I am happy to report that Aklilu was able to tell Ash how much he appreciated having him as a teacher all those 50 years ago. And Ash very much appreciated the chance to be remembered, and to exchange stories with an old student. This is not just to future peace corps volunteers, but rather to all the humans of the world… always be aware that your actions may have lasting impressions. I’m a strong believer that one moment can alter the rest of your life. As I spent the last two years in my communities, I tried to consider all the people around me watching my every move. Mostly out of curiosity, but they were also storing my actions in their memory. And maybe 50 years later I will run in to an old student who will remember something funny that I did and it will make me smile. I can only hope that my students have such fond memories of me, as Aklilu does of Ash and Floyd B Davis. And I also hope that they will grow up to be incredible people like Aklilu. “I have told you before, and I say it again: at each stage of life, there are people who significantly alter your life one way or another. Two such people for me, at a very young age, were Peace Corps Floyd B Davis and Ash Hartwell. Back in 1963 when I was 13 years old in a small rural town called Gore, Illubabor, my life ran into these men who so profoundly changed me for the better.” –Aklilu in a letter to his daughters about how Peace Corps teachers changed his life.